# Job Description
| -          | -                            || Title      | Infrastructure Manager       || Grade      | C2                           || Division   | Online Services & Strategy   || Reports to | Head of Digital Architecture |

## Overview
Digital technology offers the opportunity to transform the way public services are delivered, both in the cost of their delivery and to improve the user experience of those services.The Online Services and Strategy Division was created as a result of the Public Sector Reform Strategy and is responsible for the delivery of MyGov (a single access point to all public sector services across Scotland).  It is also responsible for the creation and implementation of a digital transformation programme across the public sector.  The service will span across citizen, visitor and business audiences tasked with improving digital take up and driving channel shift.Some key areas will include development (front and back end), web infrastructure, digital proposition and transformation, product management, publishing, business analysis, project management, stakeholder engagement, design, analytics and digital strategy.The MyGov service will be the public face of a major transformation programme spanning a significant proportion of the Scottish public sector (140+ public bodies) and resulting in the redesign and development of digital information and transactions focused on the needs of users. The broad audience base for digital services, citizens businesses and visitors to Scotland, indicates the size and scope of this transformation and the impact that it will have on the delivery of public services.  MyGov and the digital transformation programme are the catalysts that will enable the public sector to take full advantage of the opportunities that digital technology offers, helping to ensure that Scottish audiences are not disadvantaged in the digital age.The main drivers for change are to increase cost efficiencies, effective working, higher engagement levels with the general public and to capitalise on Scotland’s digital ambition to be a world leader in the delivery of public sector services and information. ## Main Duties
The infrastructure manager will have overall responsibility for the successful operation of all systems delivered as a part of the MyGov program. This will include the design, implementation, and administration of the production, test and development environments for MyGov systems. The infrastructure manager will also contribute to transformation activities, providing reference documentation via the MyGov technical manual and consultation on partner projects.**Note: this position requires some working outside of normal business hours.**
### Strategic (20%)
* Remain up to date with best practice as well as new developments and trends within the web infrastructure industry / communities and reflect this into the MyGov program.* Regularly reflect on the capabilities and maturity of the infrastructure team and lead the process of continuous improvement.* Engage with internal and external stakeholders to ensure the role of the team is well understood, that synergies are identified and joint opportunities are realised.* Anticipate future challenges and opportunities, identifying areas of infrastructure suitable for consolidation and cost savings.### Operational (80%)
* Direct the design, implementation, administration and optimisation of production, test & development web infrastructure for each of the MyGov systems.* Manage the infrastructure support helpdesk ensuring that infrastructure tasks and issues are logged, prioritised appropriately, investigated and resolved in a satisfactory and timely manner.* Management of a team of infrastructure engineers on a day-to-day basis.* Lead the on-going recruitment and professional development of the MyGov infrastructure team.* Implement monitoring for the MyGov infrastructure and systems to ensure early detection of events including unusual activity, reduced capacity or system failure.* Implement a reporting solution that allows the recording, analysis and reporting of operational data for MyGov systems at both application and business scope.* Work alongside internal and external stakeholders to define appropriate service level targets for MyGov systems, then monitor, maintain and report on the agreed service targets on an on-going basis.* Implement appropriate processes and procedures to ensure the high availability, business continuity, security of MyGov systems.* Implement appropriate measures and processes to ensure exemplar performance, from the perspective of the end-user, for all MyGov systems.* Actively identify risks, impediments and inefficiencies within the MyGov infrastructure and make swift and sustainable improvements to mitigate or resolve them.* Direct an on-going program of hardware and software upgrades, preventative maintenance and single point of failure analysis to maintain the resilience and efficiency of the MyGov infrastructure.* Lead the procurement of hardware, software and associated maintenance contracts required to implement the MyGov operational environments.* Manage relationships with the SG IT team (ISIS) as well as 3rd party software vendors to facilitate the negotiation of contracts and the timely resolution of support issues.* Participate in relevant activities of the software development lifecycle, as required.* Direct the installation, administration and optimisation of the services required to support the software development lifecycle, including version control, task tracking and code review.* Identify innovative web operations techniques, methods and tools and introduce these into the infrastructure team and processes.* Work in collaboration with software engineers, test engineers and business analysts to contribute to the overall assurance of delivery from the MyGov program.* Leverage automation, where appropriate, to improve usability, productivity and consistency of the web operations function.* Develop appropriate checklists, frameworks and other artefacts to enable a consistent approach to web operations.* Identify and procure appropriate tooling to support web operations and infrastructure activities.* Provide consultation / education / support to other public bodies as a part of the transformation activities that form part of the division’s remit.## Competencies
### People Management
* You will prioritise and agree objectives, aligned with the directorate plans, in order to engage staff.* You will respond to change and build capacity to deliver.* You will be credible with staff, creating the conditions to build confident, effective teams that empower, value and motivate people, managing workload and equalities.* You will raise performance issues using constructive challenge, feedback and coaching skills, seeking support and advice from HR professionals when needed.* You will be self-aware, recognising your impact on others and create a positive environment for innovation, learning, personal resilience, health and wellbeing.### Communications and Engagement
* You will contribute to and develop clear, creative and detailed policy communication strategies to achieve SG outcomes.* You will manage internal and external relationships, creating positive networks and maintaining trust and credibility.* You will know when to engage with communications specialists and consider the impact on other policies and programmes across SG & wider system.* You will communicate complex information clearly, presenting strategic ideas in a clear and positive way.### Improving Performance
* You will use relevant tools, techniques and skills development to facilitate continuous improvement.* You will understand SG Programme and Project management Principles and uses PPM effectively and proportionately.* You will adapt quickly to fit skills and resources to changing circumstances and expectations.* You will maintain and promote risk management processes to improve strategic planning and resource allocation.### Analysis and Use of Evidence
* You will develop policy options and decisions using a range of evidence and research, to ensure that polices are aligned to outcomes.* You will use relevant evidence, recognising validity and limitations, in evaluations & assessment of risks against desired outcomes, engaging analytical specialists appropriately.* You will capture and securely organise knowledge & information for wider use across the organisation.* You will share knowledge and information across the wider system, to obtain best value from it across the wider public service.## Knowledge and Experience Required
### Essential
* Significant senior professional experience of web infrastructure management, ideally across multiple sectors, as well as experience in the operation and support of high traffic web applications and platforms.* Experience of working under both waterfall and agile methods of project management. In particular you must be proficient in iterative software development and understand the associated responsibilities, practices and artefacts. The ability to communicate clearly and consistently on these, and other elements of the software development lifecycle, with the wider team, is also important.* Expert in service operation including experience of system monitoring, capacity planning, business continuity planning, service level management, system support and failure diagnosis.* Previous experience managing a web infrastructure team and, leading and overseeing infrastructure and operations.* Proficient in automation, having 'hands on' experience of software defined infrastructure / declarative deployment and configuration of virtual infrastructure, operating systems and applications, ideally using a common cloud IAAS provider.* Expert in designing, administering, securing and optimising computer networks including technologies such as TCP/IP, DNS, HTTP and SSL.* Expert in administering and securing web infrastructure including web servers and accelerators as well as database servers and non-relational data-stores.### Desirable
* Familiarity with release management and continuous delivery including automated build processes, artefact management and configuration management .* Familiarity with software development including analysis, architecture and implementation.* Familiarity with software testing, including, but not limited to system testing, exploratory testing and user acceptance testing.* Familiarity with automated provisioning using tools such as Chef, Puppet and Vagrant.* Familiarity with monitoring tools including Nagios, Ganglia, Statsd and Graphite.* Familiarity with IAAS, PAAS or other elastic platforms such as Amazon EC2, Heroku, etc.* Relevant professional qualifications such as ITIL or TOGAF.