# Job Description

| -         | -| Title     | Infrastructure Engineer    || Grade     | C1                         || Division  | Online Services & Strategy || Reports to| Infrastructure Manager     |## Overview
Digital technology offers the opportunity to transform the way public services are delivered, both in the cost of their delivery and to improve the user experience of those services. The Online Services and Strategy Division was created as a result of the Public Sector Reform Strategy and is responsible for the delivery of MyGov (a single access point to all public sector services across Scotland).  It is also responsible for the creation and implementation of a digital transformation programme across the public sector.  The service will span across citizen, visitor and business audiences tasked with improving digital take up and driving channel shift.Some key areas will include development (front and back end), web infrastructure, digital proposition and transformation, product management, publishing, business analysis, project management, stakeholder engagement, design, analytics and digital strategy.The MyGov service will be the public face of a major transformation programme spanning a significant proportion of the Scottish public sector (140+ public bodies) and resulting in the redesign and development of digital information and transactions focused on the needs of users. The broad audience base for digital services, citizens businesses and visitors to Scotland, indicates the size and scope of this transformation and the impact that it will have on the delivery of public services.  MyGov and the digital transformation programme are the catalysts that will enable the public sector to take full advantage of the opportunities that digital technology offers, helping to ensure that Scottish audiences are not disadvantaged in the digital age.The main drivers for change are to increase cost efficiencies, effective working, higher engagement levels with the general public and to capitalise on Scotland’s digital ambition to be a world leader in the delivery of public sector services and information.
## Main Duties
As an infrastructure engineer you will make a critical contribution to the successful operation of all systems delivered as a part of the MyGov program. Primarily, this will include the design, implementation, and administration of the production, test and development environments for MyGov systems. You will also work alongside your team to tackle major operational challenges such as ensuring these systems are secure, highly available and operate with exemplar performance.**Note: this position requires some working outside of normal business hours.**### Strategic (20%)
- Remain up to date with best practice as well as new developments and trends within the web infrastructure industry / communities.- Regularly reflect on the capabilities and maturity of the infrastructure team and contribute to the process of continuous improvement.- Engage with internal and external stakeholders to ensure the role of the team is well understood.- Contribute to the infrastructure technology radar and support the introduction of new tools, techniques and platforms through a hold, assess, trial, adopt lifecycle.
### Operational (80%)
- Implement, administer and optimise production, test & development web infrastructure for each of the MyGov systems.- Implement monitoring for the MyGov infrastructure and systems to ensure early detection of events including unusual activity, reduced capacity or system failure.- Collaborate with release engineers to operate a robust and efficient release management process that enables continuous delivery.- Operate a reporting solution that allows the recording, analysis and reporting of operational data for MyGov systems at both application and business scope.- Work alongside internal and external stakeholders to define appropriate service level targets for MyGov systems, then monitor, maintain and report on the agreed service targets on an on-going basis.- Follow appropriate processes and procedures to ensure the high availability, business continuity and security of MyGov systems.- Follow appropriate measures and processes to ensure exemplar performance, from the perspective of the end-user, for all MyGov systems- Actively identify risks, impediments and inefficiencies within the MyGov infrastructure and suggest improvements to mitigate or resolve them.- Operate the infrastructure support helpdesk ensuring that infrastructure tasks and issues are logged, prioritised appropriately, investigated and resolved in a satisfactory and timely manner.- Execute an on-going program of hardware and software upgrades, preventative maintenance and single point of failure analysis to maintain the resilience and efficiency of the MyGov infrastructure.- Maintain relationships with the SG IT team (ISIS) as well as 3rd party software vendors to facilitate the negotiation of contracts and the timely resolution of support issues.- Participate in relevant activities of the software development lifecycle, as required.- Install, administer and optimise the services required to support the software development lifecycle, including version control, task tracking and code review.- Work in collaboration with software engineers, test engineers and business analysts to contribute to the overall assurance of delivery from the MyGov program.- Leverage automation, where appropriate, to improve usability, productivity and consistency of the web operations function.- Follow appropriate checklists, frameworks and other artefacts to enable a consistent approach to web operations.- Install, maintain and leverage appropriate tooling to support web operations and infrastructure activities.- Provide consultation / education / support to other public bodies as a part of the transformation activities that form part of the division’s remit.## Competencies
### Communications and Engagement
- You will contribute to and develop clear, creative and detailed policy communication strategies to achieve SG outcomes.- You will manage internal and external relationships, creating positive networks and maintaining trust and credibility.- You will know when to engage with communications specialists and consider the impact on other policies and programmes across SG & wider system.- You will communicate complex information clearly, presenting strategic ideas in a clear and positive way.### Improving Performance
- You will use relevant tools, techniques and skills development to facilitate continuous improvement.- You will understand SG Programme and Project management Principles and uses PPM effectively and proportionately.- You will adapt quickly to fit skills and resources to changing circumstances and expectations.- You will maintain and promote risk management processes to improve strategic planning and resource allocation.### Analysis and Use of Evidence
- You will develop policy options and decisions using a range of evidence and research, to ensure that polices are aligned to outcomes.- You will use relevant evidence, recognising validity and limitations, in evaluations & assessment of risks against desired outcomes, engaging analytical specialists appropriately.- You will capture and securely organise knowledge & information for wider use across the organisation.- You will share knowledge and information across the wider system, to obtain best value from it across the wider public service.

## Knowledge and Experience Required### Essential
- 6 years of senior professional experience of web infrastructure as well as the operation and support of high traffic web applications and platforms.- Proficient in deploying, administering, securing and optimising a web application system architecture including:    - Web servers, web accelerators and reverse proxy caches;    - Linux operating system;    - Java web applications;    - Relational database servers.- Proficient in administering, securing and optimising computer networks including the following technologies:    - TCP/IP;    - HTTP;    - DNS;    - SSL.- Experience in the delivery and maintenance of system quality attributes. In particular, security, performance, compatibility, resilience and scalability.- Proficient in system monitoring, capacity planning, business continuity, system support and failure diagnosis.- Familiarity with web systems architecture, deployment and operation within both traditional data centres as well as was cloud environments.- Experience of working under both waterfall and agile methods of project management. In particular you must be proficient in iterative software development and understand the associated responsibilities, practices and artefacts. The ability to communicate clearly and consistently on these, and other elements of the software development lifecycle, with the wider team, is also important.### Desirable
- Familiarity with continuous delivery, including tactics such as automated provisioning, declarative system configuration and autonomic infrastructure.- Awareness of operating applications that will be delivered across multiple channels, including desktop, mobile & TV.- Awareness of deploying and operating web applications delivered into environments with challenging operating conditions such as limited connectivity, low bandwidth or significant web filtering.- Relevant professional qualifications such as ITIL, IISP or ISEB.- Awareness of release management and continuous delivery including automated build processes, artefact management, configuration management and automated provisioning of software environments.- Awareness of software development including analysis, architecture and implementation.- Awareness of software testing, including, but not limited to system testing, exploratory testing and user acceptance testing.