# Job Description

| -          | -                          |
| Title      | Lead Front-end Developer   || Grade      | C2                         || Division   | Online Services & Strategy || Reports to | Technical Architect        |## Overview
Digital technology offers the opportunity to transform the way public services are delivered, both in the cost of their delivery and to improve the user experience of those services. The Online Services and Strategy Division was created as a result of the Public Sector Reform Strategy and is responsible for the delivery of MyGov (a single access point to all public sector services across Scotland).  It is also responsible for the creation and implementation of a digital transformation programme across the public sector.  The service will span across citizen, visitor and business audiences tasked with improving digital take up and driving channel shift.Some key areas will include development (front and back end), web infrastructure, digital proposition and transformation, product management, publishing, business analysis, project management, stakeholder engagement, design, analytics and digital strategy.The MyGov service will be the public face of a major transformation programme spanning a significant proportion of the Scottish public sector (140+ public bodies) and resulting in the redesign and development of digital information and transactions focused on the needs of users. The broad audience base for digital services, citizens businesses and visitors to Scotland, indicates the size and scope of this transformation and the impact that it will have on the delivery of public services.  MyGov and the digital transformation programme are the catalysts that will enable the public sector to take full advantage of the opportunities that digital technology offers, helping to ensure that Scottish audiences are not disadvantaged in the digital age.The main drivers for change are to increase cost efficiencies, effective working, higher engagement levels with the general public and to capitalise on Scotland’s digital ambition to be a world leader in the delivery of public sector services and information.## Main Duties
As a senior front-end developer you will have broad and deep software development expertise and will understand the goals and strategy behind each project from conception through completion. You will provide technical leadership at the project level and will have responsibility for the successful delivery of individual web front-ends or components. You will work in collaboration with the MyGov technical architect as well as test, infrastructure and release management functions to ensure the successful delivery of the overall MyGov program of work.### Strategic (30%)
* Set the architectural vision for a MyGov front-end or component.* Contribute to the overall software engineering strategy for the MyGov program.* Contribute specific tactics, practices and strategies to ensure delivery of system quality attributes such as performance, security, resilience, usability, accessibility & compatibility.* Remain up to date with best practice as well as new developments and trends within the software engineering and architecture industry / communities and share this expertise with junior members of the team.* Regularly reflect on the capabilities and maturity of the software engineering team and contribute to the process of continuous improvement.* Engage with internal and external stakeholders to ensure the role of the team is well understood, that synergies are identified and joint opportunities are realised.* Contribute to the software engineering technology radar and support the introduction of new tools, techniques and platforms through a hold, assess, trial, adopt lifecycle.* Promote the highest professional standards to lead and educate, inspire and innovate, and deliver intelligently.### Operational (70%)
* Lead in the design and implementation of robust, scalable, open and secure web front-ends ensuring delivery to the highest standard.* Select and consume web APIs, using RESTful principles, which are usable, performant and forwards compatible.* Work with the design & UX team to deliver usable, accessible solutions that meet users’ needs and excel user expectations.* Collaborate with delivery teams and partners to break technical requirements down into appropriate pieces and to identify key API requirements for integration with internal and external systems.* Provide technical guidance during project inception to inform decisions such as build vs. buy and selection of an appropriate project management method.* Lead in the development of new features and products, and work alongside the test team to ensure that new and updated platforms, products and transactions are thoroughly tested for performance & quality, are able to handle specified load, robust and can be supported & maintained over the long-term.* Line-manage and mentor front-end developers.* Contribute to on-going recruitment and professional development of the MyGov software engineering team.* Adopt the use of agile technical practices including refactoring, unit testing and continuous integration and coach junior members of the team in their use.* Leverage automation and continuous delivery practices to produce high quality applications on a consistent schedule.* Integrate and improve on existing backend transaction processing systems.* Identify and shape integration with key cross-product systems such as identity assurance and operational monitoring.* Collaborate with external suppliers to ensure that their system architectures meet our requirements, including: application design and integration points/APIs.* Interrogate legacy systems and to identify integration opportunities.

## Competencies
### People Management
* You will prioritise and agree objectives, aligned with the directorate plans, in order to engage staff.* You will respond to change and build capacity to deliver.* You will be credible with staff, creating the conditions to build confident, effective teams that empower, value and motivate people, managing workload and equalities.* You will raise performance issues using constructive challenge, feedback and coaching skills, seeking support and advice from HR professionals when needed.* You will be self-aware, recognising your impact on others and create a positive environment for innovation, learning, personal resilience, health and wellbeing.### Communications and Engagement
* You will contribute to and develop clear, creative and detailed policy communication strategies to achieve SG outcomes.* You will manage internal and external relationships, creating positive networks and maintaining trust and credibility.* You will know when to engage with communications specialists and consider the impact on other policies and programmes across SG & wider system.* You will communicate complex information clearly, presenting strategic ideas in a clear and positive way.### Improving Performance
* You will use relevant tools, techniques and skills development to facilitate continuous improvement.* You will understand SG Programme and Project management Principles and uses PPM effectively and proportionately.* You will adapt quickly to fit skills and resources to changing circumstances and expectations.* You will maintain and promote risk management processes to improve strategic planning and resource allocation.### Analysis and Use of Evidence
* You will develop policy options and decisions using a range of evidence and research, to ensure that polices are aligned to outcomes.* You will use relevant evidence, recognising validity and limitations, in evaluations & assessment of risks against desired outcomes, engaging analytical specialists appropriately.* You will capture and securely organise knowledge & information for wider use across the organisation.* You will share knowledge and information across the wider system, to obtain best value from it across the wider public service.

## Knowledge and Experience Required
### Essential
* 8 years of senior professional experience designing, implementing and scaling high traffic web applications and web services.
* Extensive experience of web development using the following stack:
    * HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript;
    * HTTP, XML and JSON;
    * JavaScript frameworks (e.g. RequireJS, Backbone.js, jQuery, etc);
    * SOAP or RESTful web services;
    * Linux or Mac OSX operating system.
* Familiar with standard technical practices including unit testing, version control, continuous integration, coding standards, design patterns & refactoring.
* Proficient in design work and graphics manipulation as well as realising static mock-ups in CSS and HTML with high fidelity.* Proficient in front-end web development methods including:
    * progressive enhancement;
    * responsive design;
    * mobile first;
    * cross-browser compatibility;
    * JavaScript dependency management.
* Previous experience line managing and mentoring front-end developers.
* Experience of working under both waterfall and agile methods of project management. In particular you must be proficient in iterative software development and understand the associated responsibilities, practices and artefacts. The ability to communicate clearly and consistently on these, and other elements of the software development lifecycle, with the wider team, is also important.### Desirable

* Proficient in the realisation of system quality attributes. Particularly, security, performance, compatibility, resilience and scalability.
* Proficient in the principles of web accessibility and how to realise these in HTML and CSS.
* Familiarity with open source software, including operation of open source solutions, integration of open source libraries or contribution to open source projects.
* Familiar with API design and the associated trade-offs and challenges. Particularly, an understanding of compatibility, performance & usability.
* Proficient in implementing web applications delivered into environments with challenging operating conditions such as limited connectivity, low bandwidth or significant web filtering.
* Familiar with software testing, including, but not limited to system testing, exploratory testing and user acceptance testing.
* Familiar with infrastructure management including concerns such as system monitoring, capacity planning, disaster recovery and failure diagnosis.
