# Job Description

| -          | -                            || Title      | Release Manager              || Grade      | C2                           || Division   | Online Services & Strategy   || Reports to | Head of Digital Architecture |
## Overview
Digital technology offers the opportunity to transform the way public services are delivered, both in the cost of their delivery and to improve the user experience of those services. The Online Services and Strategy Division was created as a result of the Public Sector Reform Strategy and is responsible for the delivery of MyGov (a single access point to all public sector services across Scotland).  It is also responsible for the creation and implementation of a digital transformation programme across the public sector.  The service will span across citizen, visitor and business audiences tasked with improving digital take up and driving channel shift.Some key areas will include development (front and back end), web infrastructure, digital proposition and transformation, product management, publishing, business analysis, project management, stakeholder engagement, design, analytics and digital strategy.The MyGov service will be the public face of a major transformation programme spanning a significant proportion of the Scottish public sector (140+ public bodies) and resulting in the redesign and development of digital information and transactions focused on the needs of users. The broad audience base for digital services, citizens businesses and visitors to Scotland, indicates the size and scope of this transformation and the impact that it will have on the delivery of public services.  MyGov and the digital transformation programme are the catalysts that will enable the public sector to take full advantage of the opportunities that digital technology offers, helping to ensure that Scottish audiences are not disadvantaged in the digital age.The main drivers for change are to increase cost efficiencies, effective working, higher engagement levels with the general public and to capitalise on Scotland’s digital ambition to be a world leader in the delivery of public sector services and information. ## Main Duties
The release manager will have overall accountability for the success of all software releases as a part of the MyGov program. This will include direction of the software release process including, but not limited to, release planning, release execution and release reporting. The release manager will also be responsible for the measurement, reporting and continuous improvement of the release management function. The release manager will also contribute to transformation activities, providing reference documentation via the MyGov technical manual and consultation on partner projects.### Strategic (40%)
* Set the release management vision for the MyGov program.* Define, document and maintain the overall system release strategy and also for establishing release management best practice.* Define specific tactics and processes to support the release of MyGov systems.* Establish a suite of KPIs and metrics for the release management function.* Remain up to date with best practice as well as new developments and trends within the release management industry / communities and reflect this into the MyGov program.* Contribute to the definition and documentation of the MyGov technical handbook as a member of the MyGov technical steering group.* Regularly reflect on the capabilities and maturity of the release management team and lead the process of continuous improvement.* Engage with internal and external stakeholders to ensure the role of release management is well understood, that synergies are identified and joint opportunities are realised.* Own and maintain a technology radar and direct the introduction of new tools, techniques and platforms through a hold, assess, trial, adopt lifecycle.### Operational (60%)
* Plan and manage the release of MyGov applications, including pre and post activities such as stakeholder sign-off, readiness checklists, preparation of release notes and retrospectives.* Define and document readiness and success criteria for the release process.* Facilitate negotiation between MyGov stakeholders and the delivery team to determine a roadmap and release schedule for the MyGov program in order to enable regular delivery of new features with consistently high quality.* Establish release acceptance & validation criteria and agree the process for promoting release candidates through the development and test environments into live.* Manage the artefact repository and define and document the MyGov approach to artefact version numbers.* Measure, analyse and report on KPIs and metrics for the release management function.* Manage the continuous integration environment and work in collaboration the development team to define, implement and optimise our automated build processes.* Lead the definition of a consistent version control workflow including details of branching and merging strategy as well as management of alpha beta and GA releases.* Direct internal communications related to the release process.* Prepare and present reports to the program office and MyGov team describing release management KPIs, progress, etc.* Collaborate effectively under pressure with software, test & infrastructure engineers to deliver patches and emergency change requests, as required.* Manage risk associated with the release process analysing likelihood and impact and developing appropriate mitigation strategies including roll back plans.* Investigate failures of the release process via approaches such as root-cause analysis and pro-actively tune the release process to reduce the failure rate over time.* Work in collaboration with software engineers, infrastructure engineers and business analysts to contribute to the overall assurance of delivery from the MyGov program.* Identify innovative release management techniques, methods and tools and introduce these into the release process.* Leverage automation, where appropriate, to improve the speed, frequency, success rate with which MyGov systems can be released.* Develop appropriate checklists, frameworks and other artefacts to enable a consistent approach to release management.* Identify and procure appropriate tooling to support the release management process.* Provide consultation / education / support to other public bodies as a part of the transformation activities that form part of the division’s remit.## Competencies
### Communications and Engagement
* You will contribute to and develop clear, creative and detailed policy communication strategies to achieve SG outcomes.* You will manage internal and external relationships, creating positive networks and maintaining trust and credibility.* You will know when to engage with communications specialists and consider the impact on other policies and programmes across SG & wider system.* You will communicate complex information clearly, presenting strategic ideas in a clear and positive way.### Improving Performance
* You will use relevant tools, techniques and skills development to facilitate continuous improvement.* You will understand SG Programme and Project management Principles and uses PPM effectively and proportionately.* You will adapt quickly to fit skills and resources to changing circumstances and expectations.* You will maintain and promote risk management processes to improve strategic planning and resource allocation.### Analysis and Use of Evidence
* You will develop policy options and decisions using a range of evidence and research, to ensure that polices are aligned to outcomes.* You will use relevant evidence, recognising validity and limitations, in evaluations & assessment of risks against desired outcomes, engaging analytical specialists appropriately.* You will capture and securely organise knowledge & information for wider use across the organisation.* You will share knowledge and information across the wider system, to obtain best value from it across the wider public service.## Knowledge and Experience Required
### Essential
* 8 years of senior professional experience of release management for high traffic web applications and web services.* Proficient in all areas of release management, including:    * Management of a continuous integration environment;    * Configuration management;    * Artefact management and the operation of an artefact repository;    * Continuous delivery and the strategies and practices that underpin it.* Proficient in the software build process, build scripting and in build process automation.* Expert in the software release process including significant experience including artefact build, database schema migration & management of application configuration.* Experience of the release management of software systems to be deployed into both traditional data centres as well as cloud environments. * Experience defining and documenting a release management strategy and associated tactics / processes.* Experience of working under both waterfall and agile methods of project management. In particular you must be proficient in iterative software development and understand the associated responsibilities, practices and artefacts. The ability to communicate clearly and consistently on these, and other elements of the software development lifecycle, with the wider team, is also important.### Desirable
* Significant experience of the release management for green field systems as well as existing or legacy systems.* Hands on experience of release management across multiple operating systems including Windows and Linux.* Experience releasing applications across multiple channels, including desktop, mobile & TV.* Experience of releasing web applications into environments with challenging operating conditions such as limited connectivity, low bandwidth or significant web filtering.* Relevant professional qualifications such as ITIL.* Familiarity with software testing including, but not limited to, system testing, exploratory testing and user acceptance testing.* Familiarity with infrastructure management including concerns such as system monitoring, capacity planning, disaster recovery and failure diagnosis.
