# Job Description
|            |                              || ---        | ---                          || Title      | Technical Architect          || Grade      | C3                           || Division   | Online Services & Strategy   || Reports to | Head of Digital Architecture |## Overview
Digital technology offers the opportunity to transform the way public services are delivered, both in the cost of their delivery and to improve the user experience of those services.The Online Services and Strategy Division was created as a result of the Public Sector Reform Strategy and is responsible for the delivery of MyGov (a single access point to all public sector services across Scotland). It is also responsible for the creation and implementation of a digital transformation programme across the public sector. The service will span across citizen, visitor and business audiences tasked with improving digital take up and driving channel shift.Some key areas will include development (front and back end), web infrastructure, digital proposition and transformation, product management, publishing, business analysis, project management, stakeholder engagement, design, analytics and digital strategy.The MyGov service will be the public face of a major transformation programme spanning a significant proportion of the Scottish public sector (140+ public bodies) and resulting in the redesign and development of digital information and transactions focused on the needs of users. The broad audience base for digital services, citizens businesses and visitors to Scotland, indicates the size and scope of this transformation and the impact that it will have on the delivery of public services. MyGov and the digital transformation programme are the catalysts that will enable the public sector to take full advantage of the opportunities that digital technology offers, helping to ensure that Scottish audiences are not disadvantaged in the digital age.The main drivers for change are to increase cost efficiencies, effective working, higher engagement levels with the general public and to capitalise on Scotland’s digital ambition to be a world leader in the delivery of public sector services and information.


## Main Duties
You will work with subject matter experts including service/policy owners, internal and external to the Scottish Government, to deliver national public sector reform in Scotland and ensure that the solution meets business need.As a technical architect you will have broad and deep software development expertise and will understand the goals and strategy behind each project from conception through completion. You will have responsibility and accountability for architectural decisions and will also direct technical activities. You will use your expertise to identify opportunities to improve processes and offer constructive suggestions for change. As a technical architect you will also contribute to transformation activities, providing reference documentation via the MyGov technical manual and consultation on partner projects.As part of the development team you will be required to work collaboratively and coordinate effectively with colleagues across the Division and across the public sector including project managers and Internet strategists around schedules and deliverables to lead the delivery of digital projects.### Strategic (50%)
* Set the architectural vision for the MyGov program.* Define, document and maintain the overall software engineering strategy for the MyGov program.* Define specific tactics, practices and strategies to ensure delivery of system quality attributes such as performance, security, resilience, usability, accessibility & compatibility.* Remain up to date with best practice as well as new developments and trends within the software engineering and architecture industry / communities and reflect this into the MyGov program.* Contribute to the definition and documentation of the MyGov technical handbook as a member of the MyGov technical steering group.* Regularly reflect on the capabilities and maturity of the software engineering team and lead the process of continuous improvement.* Engage with internal and external stakeholders to ensure the role of the team is well understood, that synergies are identified and joint opportunities are realised.* Own and maintain a technology radar and direct the introduction of new tools, techniques and platforms through a hold, assess, trial, adopt lifecycle.* Promote the highest professional standards to lead and educate, inspire and innovate, and deliver intelligently.* Work with and direct other key technical staff to identify gaps in technical capabilities and address these.* Actively promote digital principles and foster a collaborative approach to solution delivery and engagement across the public sector.### Operational (50%)
* Direct the architecture, design, and implementation of robust, scalable, open and secure web-based platforms and products ensuring delivery to the highest standard.* Integrate and improve on existing backend transaction processing systems.* Identify and shape integration with key cross-product systems such as identity assurance and operational monitoring.* Manage and collaborate with external suppliers to ensure that their system architectures meet our requirements, including: overall system design, user experience, and integration points/APIs.* Lead in the design and development of new features and products, and work along side the test team to ensure that new and updated platforms, products and transactions are thoroughly tested for performance & quality, are able to handle specified load, robust and can be supported & maintained over the long-term.* Line management and mentoring senior software engineers.* Lead on-going recruitment and professional development of the MyGov software engineering team.* Collaborate with delivery teams and partners to break technical requirements down into appropriate pieces and to identify key API requirements for integration with internal and external systems.* Provide technical guidance during project inception to inform decisions such as build vs. buy and selection of an appropriate project management method.* Interrogate legacy systems and to identify integration opportunities.## Competencies
### People Management
* You will prioritise and agree objectives, aligned with the directorate plans, in order to engage staff.* You will respond to change and build capacity to deliver.* You will be credible with staff, creating the conditions to build confident, effective teams that empower, value and motivate people, managing workload and equalities.* You will raise performance issues using constructive challenge, feedback and coaching skills, seeking support and advice from HR professionals when needed.* You will be self-aware, recognising your impact on others and create a positive environment for innovation, learning, personal resilience, health and wellbeing.### Communications and Engagement
* You will contribute to and develop clear, creative and detailed policy communication strategies to achieve SG outcomes.* You will manage internal and external relationships, creating positive networks and maintaining trust and credibility.* You will know when to engage with communications specialists and consider the impact on other policies and programmes across SG & wider system.* You will communicate complex information clearly, presenting strategic ideas in a clear and positive way.### Improving Performance
* You will use relevant tools, techniques and skills development to facilitate continuous improvement.* You will understand SG Programme and Project management Principles and uses PPM effectively and proportionately.* You will adapt quickly to fit skills and resources to changing circumstances and expectations.* You will maintain and promote risk management processes to improve strategic planning and resource allocation.
### Analysis and Use of Evidence
* You will develop policy options and decisions using a range of evidence and research, to ensure that polices are aligned to outcomes.* You will use relevant evidence, recognising validity and limitations, in evaluations & assessment of risks against desired outcomes, engaging analytical specialists appropriately.* You will capture and securely organise knowledge & information for wider use across the organisation.* You will share knowledge and information across the wider system, to obtain best value from it across the wider public service.

## Knowledge and Experience Required
### Essential
* 10 years of senior professional experience in the architecture and implementation high traffic web applications, web services and platforms that are consumed across multiple channels, including desktop, mobile & TV.* Expert in web technologies including HTTP, DNS, HTML, XML, SOAP, JSON, CSS and JavaScript.* Expert in application development using the Java language and the Java Virtual Machine using a Linux or Mac OSX operating system.* Significant experience in the discovery, definition, and realisation of system quality attributes. Particularly, security, performance, compatibility, resilience and scalability.* Experience of RESTful web API design and the associated trade-offs and challenges. Particularly, an understanding of API compatibility, performance & usability. This should include familiarity with service level targets and the authorship of service level agreements.* Proficient in systems integration and the architectural patterns and tactics used to achieve this.* Previous experience managing a large technical team and, leading and overseeing application development.* Experience detailing and documenting software development best practices and coding standards.* Expert in standard technical practices including distributed version control, unit testing, continuous integration, coding standards & refactoring.* Deep understanding of persistence solutions including document, object and relational databases and the ability to select an appropriate solution to address business requirements. Including demonstrable experience working with a database such as MySQL, Oracle or PostgreSQL.### Desirable
* Experience of working under both waterfall and agile methods of project management. In particular you must be proficient in iterative software development and understand the associated responsibilities, practices and artefacts. The ability to communicate clearly and consistently on these, and other elements of the software development lifecycle, with the wider team, is also important.* Broad experience of open source software, including operation of open source solutions, integration of open source libraries and contribution to open source projects.* Broad experience of software design covering areas such as deployment into both traditional data centres and cloud environments; challenges related to building vs. buying software systems; as well as both green field software development and the enhancement of existing systems.* Familiarity with release management and continuous delivery including automated build processes, artefact management, configuration management and automated provisioning of software environments.* Familiarity with software testing, including, but not limited to system testing, exploratory testing and user acceptance testing.* Familiarity with infrastructure management including concerns such as system monitoring, capacity planning, disaster recovery and failure diagnosis.* Experience delivering web applications into environments with challenging operating conditions such as limited connectivity, low bandwidth or significant web filtering.* Understanding of the need for strategic alignment of technical design and architecture to meet business requirements and program benefits.* Relevant professional qualifications such as TOGAF or ITIL.
