# Job Description

| -          | -                            || Title      | Test Manager                 || Grade      | C2                           || Division   | Online Services & Strategy   || Reports to | Head of Digital Architecture |

## Overview
Digital technology offers the opportunity to transform the way public services are delivered, both in the cost of their delivery and to improve the user experience of those services. The Online Services and Strategy Division was created as a result of the Public Sector Reform Strategy and is responsible for the delivery of MyGov (a single access point to all public sector services across Scotland). It is also responsible for the creation and implementation of a digital transformation programme across the public sector. The service will span across citizen, visitor and business audiences tasked with improving digital take up and driving channel shift.Some key areas will include development (front and back end), web infrastructure, digital proposition and transformation, product management, publishing, business analysis, project management, stakeholder engagement, design, analytics and digital strategy.The MyGov service will be the public face of a major transformation programme spanning a significant proportion of the Scottish public sector (140+ public bodies) and resulting in the redesign and development of digital information and transactions focused on the needs of users. The broad audience base for digital services, citizens businesses and visitors to Scotland, indicates the size and scope of this transformation and the impact that it will have on the delivery of public services. MyGov and the digital transformation programme are the catalysts that will enable the public sector to take full advantage of the opportunities that digital technology offers, helping to ensure that Scottish audiences are not disadvantaged in the digital age.The main drivers for change are to increase cost efficiencies, effective working, higher engagement levels with the general public and to capitalise on Scotland’s digital ambition to be a world leader in the delivery of public sector services and information.


## Main Duties
The test manager will have overall responsibility for ensuring that all systems delivered as a part of the MyGov program are both defect free and meet the defined requirements. This will include confirming that systems meet their stated functional requirements, realise the specified quality attributes (non-functional requirements) and are fully compliant with relevant legislation and regulations. The test manager will also contribute to transformation activities, providing reference documentation via the MyGov technical manual and consultation on partner projects.
### Strategic (40%)
* Set the testing vision for the MyGov program.* Define, document and maintain the overall system test strategy for the MyGov program.* Define specific tactics and strategies for testing system quality attributes such as performance, security, resilience, usability, accessibility & compatibility.* Remain up to date with best practice as well as new developments and trends within the testing industry / communities and reflect this into the MyGov program.* Contribute to the definition and documentation of the MyGov technical handbook as a member of the MyGov technical steering group.* Regularly reflect on the capabilities and maturity of the testing team and lead the process of continuous improvement.* Engage with internal and external stakeholders to ensure the role of the team is well understood, that synergies are identified and joint opportunities are realised.* Own and maintain a technology radar and direct the introduction of new tools, techniques and platforms through a hold, assess, trial, adopt lifecycle.### Operational (60%)
* Direct the testing of MyGov systems ensuring test execution is consistently of a high standard.* Define and implement an approach to test management including the traceability of tests to business requirements.* Lead test-planning activities, including the discovery, capture and definition of tests from a system’s business requirements.* Management of a team of test engineers on a day-to-day basis.* Lead the on-going recruitment and professional development of the MyGov test team.* Provide accurate estimates of testing activities and work alongside the project management team to plan and schedule test execution.* Measure and report on the system testing process at both the program and the project level.* Define a defect lifecycle and a defect management process, in conjunction with software and infrastructure engineers, that both minimises time to fix and aims to reduce the MyGov defect rate over time.* Identify innovative testing techniques, methods and tools and introduce these into the testing process.* Work in collaboration with software engineers, infrastructure engineers and business analysts to contribute to the overall assurance of delivery from the MyGov program.* Leverage automation, where appropriate, to increase the rate at which the testing process can provide feedback on defects, etc.* Develop appropriate checklists, frameworks and other artefacts to enable a consistent approach to testing.* Identify and procure appropriate tooling to support system testing activities.* Provide consultation / education / support to other public bodies as a part of the transformation activities that form part of the division’s remit.


## Competencies
### People Management* You will prioritise and agree objectives, aligned with the directorate plans, in order to engage staff.* You will respond to change and build capacity to deliver.* You will be credible with staff, creating the conditions to build confident, effective teams that empower, value and motivate people, managing workload and equalities.* You will raise performance issues using constructive challenge, feedback and coaching skills, seeking support and advice from HR professionals when needed.* You will be self-aware, recognising your impact on others and create a positive environment for innovation, learning, personal resilience, health and wellbeing.### Communications and Engagement
* You will contribute to and develop clear, creative and detailed policy communication strategies to achieve SG outcomes.* You will manage internal and external relationships, creating positive networks and maintaining trust and credibility.* You will know when to engage with communications specialists and consider the impact on other policies and programmes across SG & wider system.* You will communicate complex information clearly, presenting strategic ideas in a clear and positive way.### Improving Performance
* You will use relevant tools, techniques and skills development to facilitate continuous improvement.* You will understand SG Programme and Project management Principles and uses PPM effectively and proportionately.* You will adapt quickly to fit skills and resources to changing circumstances and expectations.* You will maintain and promote risk management processes to improve strategic planning and resource allocation.### Analysis and Use of Evidence
* You will develop policy options and decisions using a range of evidence and research, to ensure that polices are aligned to outcomes.* You will use relevant evidence, recognising validity and limitations, in evaluations & assessment of risks against desired outcomes, engaging analytical specialists appropriately.* You will capture and securely organise knowledge & information for wider use across the organisation.* You will share knowledge and information across the wider system, to obtain best value from it across the wider public service.


## Knowledge and Experience Required
### Essential
* 10 years of senior professional experience testing high traffic web applications and web services.* Expert in system testing, exploratory testing and user acceptance testing as well as test automation.* Significant experience in the testing of system quality attributes. Particularly, security, performance, compatibility, resilience and scalability.* Previous experience managing a large testing team and, leading and overseeing application testing for a programme of work.* Experience defining and documenting a testing strategy and associated tactics / practices.* Experience of testing software systems to be deployed into both traditional data centres as well as was cloud environments. * Experience of working under both waterfall and agile methods of project management. In particular you must be proficient in iterative software development and understand the associated responsibilities, practices and artefacts. The ability to communicate clearly and consistently on these, and other elements of the software development lifecycle, with the wider team, is also important.### Desirable
* Significant experience of testing green field systems as well as the testing of existing or legacy systems.* Hands on experience of testing web applications and across multiple operating systems including Windows and Linux.* Proficient in testing web applications across multiple channels, including desktop, mobile & TV.* Proficient in testing web applications delivered into environments with challenging operating conditions such as limited connectivity, low bandwidth or significant web filtering.* Relevant professional qualifications such as ISTQB or ITIL.* Familiarity with release management and continuous delivery including automated build processes, artefact management, configuration management and automated provisioning of software environments.* Familiarity with infrastructure management including concerns such as system monitoring, capacity planning, disaster recovery and failure diagnosis.
